README.md, before:

# NotesAI SE

[![CI](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/dwelsh1/notesai-se?label=version)](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/releases)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=white)](https://react.dev/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.9-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-7.2-646CFF?logo=vite&logoColor=white)](https://vitejs.dev/)
[![Electron](https://img.shields.io/badge/Electron-39-47848F?logo=electron&logoColor=white)](https://www.electronjs.org/)
[![Playwright](https://img.shields.io/badge/Playwright-1.58-2EAD33?logo=playwright&logoColor=white)](https://playwright.dev/)
[![tiptap](https://img.shields.io/badge/tiptap-2-000000?logo=prosemirror&logoColor=white)](https://tiptap.dev/)
[![SQLite](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLite-3-003B57?logo=sqlite&logoColor=white)](https://www.sqlite.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-LTS-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)

NotesAI SE is a simplified, local-only NotesAI variant focused on privacy.
It uses a markdown editor (tiptap) with a top toolbar, slash commands, and AI
integration via LM Studio over local HTTP. Electron-only runtime.

## Docs

- Plan: `docs/notesAI_se-plan.md`
- Overview: `docs/readme.md`
- Architecture: `docs/architecture.md`
- API: `docs/api.md`
- Developer guide: `docs/developer.md`
- Testing: `docs/testing.md`
- Changelog: `docs/changelog.md`

## Quick Start

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`
2. Run the app: `npm run dev:electron`

## Project Structure

```
docs/                  # Planning + guides
electron/              # Electron main/preload + SQLite
src/                   # React renderer
tests/                 # Shared selectors + Playwright specs
playwright.config.ts   # Playwright config
vite.config.ts         # Vite + Vitest config
```

## Command Cheatsheet (Windows 11)

### App

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run dev:electron` | Runs Vite dev server + Electron app |
| `npm run dev` | Runs Vite dev server only |
| `npm run build` | Builds the renderer (Vite) |
| `npm run build:electron:main` | Builds Electron main/preload |
| `npm run build:electron` | Builds Electron main + renderer |
| `npm run start:desktop` | Starts the desktop app (PowerShell) |
| `npm run start:desktop:rebuild` | Rebuilds native modules, then starts the desktop app |
| `npm run stop:desktop` | Stops Electron and Node processes |
| `Ctrl + C` | Stops the running dev process in the current terminal |
| `taskkill /F /IM electron.exe` | Force-close Electron if it hangs |

### Unit Tests

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run test:unit` | Runs unit tests (Vitest) |
| `npm run test:unit:coverage` | Runs unit tests with coverage |

### Playwright E2E

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npx playwright install` | Installs Playwright browsers (one-time) |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Runs Playwright E2E tests |
| `npm run test:e2e:ui` | Runs Playwright in UI mode |
| `npm run test:e2e:electron` | Runs Playwright E2E against Electron |
| `npx playwright test -g @smoke` | Runs Playwright tests tagged `@smoke` |

### Quality

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run lint` | Runs ESLint |
| `npm run lint:fix` | Fixes lint issues where possible |
| `npm run format` | Checks formatting (Prettier) |
| `npm run format:write` | Formats files with Prettier |


## Status

Phase 0 complete.

Commit message:

feat: add import export and backup stubs

README.md, after:

# NotesAI SE

[![CI](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/dwelsh1/notesai-se?label=version)](https://github.com/dwelsh1/notesai-se/releases)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=white)](https://react.dev/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.9-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-7.2-646CFF?logo=vite&logoColor=white)](https://vitejs.dev/)
[![Electron](https://img.shields.io/badge/Electron-39-47848F?logo=electron&logoColor=white)](https://www.electronjs.org/)
[![Playwright](https://img.shields.io/badge/Playwright-1.58-2EAD33?logo=playwright&logoColor=white)](https://playwright.dev/)
[![tiptap](https://img.shields.io/badge/tiptap-2-000000?logo=prosemirror&logoColor=white)](https://tiptap.dev/)
[![SQLite](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLite-3-003B57?logo=sqlite&logoColor=white)](https://www.sqlite.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-LTS-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)

NotesAI SE is a simplified, local-only NotesAI variant focused on privacy.
It uses a markdown editor (tiptap) with a top toolbar, slash commands, and AI
integration via LM Studio over local HTTP. Electron-only runtime.

## Docs

- Plan: `docs/notesAI_se-plan.md`
- Overview: `docs/readme.md`
- Architecture: `docs/architecture.md`
- API: `docs/api.md`
- Developer guide: `docs/developer.md`
- Testing: `docs/testing.md`
- Changelog: `docs/changelog.md`

## Quick Start

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`
2. Run the app: `npm run dev:electron`

## Project Structure

```
docs/                  # Planning + guides
electron/              # Electron main/preload + SQLite
src/                   # React renderer
tests/                 # Shared selectors + Playwright specs
playwright.config.ts   # Playwright config
vite.config.ts         # Vite + Vitest config
```

## Command Cheatsheet (Windows 11)

### App

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run dev:electron` | Runs Vite dev server + Electron app |
| `npm run dev` | Runs Vite dev server only |
| `npm run build` | Builds the renderer (Vite) |
| `npm run build:electron:main` | Builds Electron main/preload |
| `npm run build:electron` | Builds Electron main + renderer |
| `npm run start:desktop` | Starts the desktop app (PowerShell) |
| `npm run start:desktop:rebuild` | Rebuilds native modules, then starts the desktop app |
| `npm run stop:desktop` | Stops Electron and Node processes |
| `Ctrl + C` | Stops the running dev process in the current terminal |
| `taskkill /F /IM electron.exe` | Force-close Electron if it hangs |

### Unit Tests

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run test:unit` | Runs unit tests (Vitest) |
| `npm run test:unit:coverage` | Runs unit tests with coverage |

### Playwright E2E

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npx playwright install` | Installs Playwright browsers (one-time) |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Runs Playwright E2E tests |
| `npm run test:e2e:ui` | Runs Playwright in UI mode |
| `npm run test:e2e:electron` | Runs Playwright E2E against Electron |
| `npx playwright test -g @smoke` | Runs Playwright tests tagged `@smoke` |

### Quality

| Command | What it does |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run lint` | Runs ESLint |
| `npm run lint:fix` | Fixes lint issues where possible |
| `npm run format` | Checks formatting (Prettier) |
| `npm run format:write` | Formats files with Prettier |


## Status

Phases 1–4 are in progress (page tree, editor, tabs, dashboard, import/export, backups stubs).
